---
title: Why I've created a Game of Thrones Betting Game with Vue.js
summary: Hey Everyone, I'm excited for the final season of Game of Thrones and so I created a fan made betting game for the days between. 
date: 2019-04-10
tags:
  - post
  - tech
---



In this post I want to explain a bit why its still viable if you do something non-commercial for your own sake.


### The Idea

Recently I was scrolling through my Facebook Feed and and saw a post about a tipping game especially made for the new season of Game of Thrones. So I took the initial idea and started to build my first prototype. The quick prototype showed me that that the game will take some time to code and publish it in the end. So I wasn't sure if its whether it is worth the risk so i started to define my conditions for it.


## Define your goals and conditions

I always try set my goals first to define what I want to achieve and first to set my conditions,   


### Main Goals

- **Improve my tech Stack:** Mostly I do side projects to evaluate a particularly framework or cloud environment in terms of complexity, costs and reliability. 

- **Set myself a Deadline:** Especially on side projects its important (for me) to have a deadline set. Since you don't have extern factors like client or money whichUnfortunately my side projects are mostly finished "when it's done". The game should be released before the first episode is on air. So the deadline was set.

- **Have fun:** I guess this should be obvious. Side projects have to be fun because in first place you don't earn money for it and you probably waste a lot of time if you don't set your conditions right. Don't burn out on a private side project this will kill creativity and motivation. For me coding is like solving puzzles or building with lego.



### Game Goals and Mechanics

So what should be the reason to play this game anyway? I came up with the following

- **Visuals**: TI wanted to give the app some more illustrative minimal look. Like you see on [Game of Thrones REIGN](https://reignsgame.com) Game.
- **Catch up**: You should If you have a list alive Game of Thrones Characters you can quickly catch up on who is still alive



## Define your Target Group


Just think of group of people with similiar interests who could make use of your product. Now think of their pain points. What are their needs what do they struggle with. Get specific as you can. Normally you want to sell something your target audience in this case its more open I would say. For example in my case I have two gathered this pain points for Game of Thrones fans:

- Remember Names, Faces and try to catch up with the latest living Characters in the season.
- The waiting time until the first episode and between the next episodes.
- Not technically savvy   


And When not even a product if it's something you can address an audiences  


Lets say you code a nice small app for yourself i.e. for learning a new cool javascript framework like vuejs or react you may think it's not necessary to think about a target audience at all. But can this probably small app help someone else to achieve his own goals and address his needs? Probably not since you just have followed a tutorial and there is nothing in it which i new.


## From Idea to Concept





## Possible Critics


- Fans try to avoid spoilers in every way. Sure thing. This is difficult to handle since if a character vanish from the tv show it won't show up anymore in the game.  Also if you haven't watch all episodes yet you will experience some spoilers since you don't see some Faces anymore in first place.



  [img -> Spoiler ]


## How to finish a side project


In the past I started a lot of projects for fun but never finished most of them because I experienced some complex problems which I couldn't solve, just lost interested because I wanted to make it bigger and bigger, . Did I mention that I always set my goals first? This is an important key to achieve a final release on day X. 


### Should I write everything from scratch? 

Fact is: If I would have written everything from scratch I would have never finished this game. If you look on github you can find a ton of libraries which can make your life easier and you don't need to reinvent things where some other guys have already struggled with it. But if you overuse 3rd party libraries and just glue everything together you will have some disadvantages here. You are using code which is mostly written for a use case so maybe you got more than you need. 

- **Code quality** 



- **Stay motivated**: 

Especially for side projects where you don't earn any money and just give up important time of yours it's really difficult to stay motivated to finish a product. 


- **Outsource some work**: 

Even if its a side project - <u>don't waste time on something you not good at and totally not interested in</u>. To be clear that means if you not good in something like playing the guitar but you would like to learn it - then do it. 
But otherwise please don't get frustated to solve something which you absoluty hate. This will kill your project in terms of time and quality. (See Goal 3 - Have fun)

Here is my stupid formular:

```no interest on improving + not good at it => outsource```



Outsourcing can be a multiplactor too. You won't look for people who aren't interested in your project and this is the reason why they try to publish? their work too. 
 
 
--- 
 
You have to stay motivated and be mentally This could be probably also some reason why a lot of people stay in their comfort zones but  

Oh this is not just for side projects but it's even harder to not  always need this reminder. It's important to Keep the product small and just build a MVP for the first release. Don't try to make everything perfect and just release it when its work. It's even h



(from a technical point of view you need to serve)
