---
title: What I've learned from relaunching my blog
summary: Hey Everyone, I launched my blog back then in 2014 with the Idea to store my experience and failure with developing web projects to a and share it to the public.
date: 2019-04-02
tags:
  - post
  - webdev
  - design
---


I want to continue this story and give you some insights of how I relaunched my blog in 2019. First I spent some time to define my goals which is an important key to get on the track.

## 1. The posts should be written in an consistent aesthic format. 

The answer is simple. Use [markdown](https://markdown-it.github.io/). You don't have to worry about format text, links, list or images in a wysiyg editor. If you want to prepare your blog posts inside a note app I can recommend notion, bear or what I personally use is evernote with the better alternote ui. 

## 2. ss



## 3. Improve my writing skills

This is a private preference goal which I can't really measure but I think I can combine it with the regular schedule goal to check  

## 3. Fast and secure Framework and reliable hosting provider.



Good

- High speed
- Clean format and markup with Markdown (avoid WYWYG Editors) 


## Why eleventy (11ty.io)

Javascript is the language I feel most comfortable with (never thought that I would say that ever...). So I looked at the many avaiable Static Site Generators in the wild out there and made some comparison. 

@TODO: Table

So i stumpled upon 11ty.


## Quickstart

Leverage agile frameworks to provide a robust synopsis for high level overviews. Iterative approaches to corporate strategy foster collaborative thinking to further the overall value proposition. Organically grow the holistic world view of disruptive innovation via workplace diversity and empowerment.

Bring to the table win-win survival strategies to ensure proactive domination. At the end of the day, going forward, a new normal that has evolved from generation X is on the runway heading towards a streamlined cloud solution. User generated content in real-time will have multiple touchpoints for offshoring.

## Section Header

Capitalize on low hanging fruit to identify a ballpark value added activity to beta test. Override the digital divide with additional clickthroughs from DevOps. Nanotechnology immersion along the information highway will close the loop on focusing solely on the bottom line.

```js 
text/2-3
// this is a command
function myCommand() {
	let counter = 0;
	counter++;
}
```
Organically grow the holistic world view of disruptive innovation via workplace diversity and empowerment.
